CHAPTER FOUR: SYSTEM ANALYSIS AND REQUIREMENT MODELING
This is a minimum of 8 pages and Maximum of 10 pages. 

The chapter should address at least the following areas:- 
Description on how the current system works using tools like flow charts, DFDs, etc. See https://www.edrawsoft.com/article/what-is-system-flowchart.html for examples of flowcharts you can use.. 
Describe the facts and the data gathered including the methods used (interview, questionnaire, observation) 
Requirement definitions and modeling of the current system in terms of Logical DFDs and physical DFDs 
Requirement definitions and specifications of the proposed system - list functional requirements, non-functional requirements, system requirements, and business requirements (at least 2 each). 

You must include the diagrams that show understanding (analysis) of the existing system (usually a manual system).

Chapter outline
4.1.   INTRODUCTION
Give an introduction on the analysis to be performed and the organisation. (2 paragraphs)

4.2. STRUCTURE OF THE ORGANISATION
Explain about the organisation.
Include a diagram of the organisational structure

4.3. ANALYSIS OF THE CURRENT SYSTEM
First briefly outline how the current system works, and it's problems.
4.3.1. Problems of the current system
...
...
...
...
Figure 4.1.: The current system data flow diagram

4.4   FACT FINDING REPORT

1st method
What researcher found out during requirements gathering using 1st method
2nd Method
What researcher found out
3rd Method
What researcher found out

4.5   FEASIBILITY STUDY
Economic feasibility of the proposed system
Technical feasibility of the proposed system
Operational feasibility of the proposed system

4.6.   THE PROPOSED SYSTEM
4.6.1. The Requirements of the proposed system
a. User requirements
.. 
..
..
b. Business requirements:
.. 
..
..
c. Functional requirements
.. 
..
..
d. Non-functional requirements
.. 
..
..
4.7   DATA FLOW DIAGRAMS
Include the following diagrams with related explanations.
Proposed system context diagram (Level 0 dfd)
Proposed system logical data flow diagram (Level 1 and 2)
Proposed system use case diagram
see https://blog.hubspot.com/marketing/data-flow-diagram for an example of a context diagram, a Level 1 and a Level 2 diagram


CHAPTER FIVE: SYSTEM DESIGN
This is a minimum of 7 and Maximum of 10 pages

The section should include
Introduction
Architecture of the proposed system –see https://www.edrawsoft.com/article/system-architecture-diagram.html for some examples
System process diagrams
Database design, structure and tables
User interface design - navigation, input and output design and screenshots once the system is developed.
	
CHAPTER SIX: SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATION 
This is a minimum of 3 and Maximum of 4 pages.

 The chapter should address the following areas:- 
Tools used for coding and testing 
Testing: this should be explained in terms of the data used to test and the approach. 
Proposed Change-over techniques 

CHAPTER SEVEN: LIMITATIONS, CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS 
This is a minimum of 1 page and Maximum of 2 pages.

 The chapter has the following sections: 
Limitations: In this section you need to state some of the problems you encountered in the process of doing your research e.g. time factor, finances, anti-cooperative responses 

Conclusions: ties the results of the study to theory, practice and policy by pulling together the theoretical background, literature review, potential significance for application and results of the study. 

Recommendations: the section highlights suggestions and recommendations for further improvements in the system. 

Reference: 
This is a minimum of 1 page and Maximum of 2 pages and should have 
Minimum of 3 books, 3 journals and 5 URL 
APA format to be used, 

example 
BOOK CHAPTER, ESSAY, or ARTICLE when author is credited 
de Paula, T. C. M., Lagana, K., & Gonzalez-Ramirez, L. (1996). Mexican Americans. In J. G. Lipson, S. L Dibble, & P. A. Minarik (Eds.), Culture and nursing care: A pocket guide (pp. 203-221). San Francisco: USCF Nursing Press. 

JOURNAL ARTICLE (from an online database) 
Kavanagh, K., Absalom, K., Beil, W., & Schliessmann, L. (1999). Connecting and becoming culturally competent: A Lakota example. Advances in Nursing Science, 21, 9-31. Retrieved March 26, 2001 from ProQuest/Nursing Journals database. 


Appendix 
This is a minimum of 10 pages and Maximum of 20 pages. 

Should include items such as; 
Organizational structure 
Instruments like document reviewed 
Interesting codes to a maximum of 4 pages 
Technical guide and users’ manual 

COVER BINDING AND SUBMISSION 
Final submission of the project paper (upon approval), in three (3) copies must be in permanent hard or soft cover binding and submitted to Project Coordinator. A softcopy of the system MUST also be submitted.

PRESENTATION
After your system is complete, when it is time to present, you will prepare a 5 slide presentation.  The slides will contain the (1) cover slide (your name, student registration number, name of the project system), (2) introduction and background of the project, (3) objectives of the system, (4) challenges faced during the project, and (5) conclusion - way forward.
After the slide show, you will demonstrate how your system works.  You should be able to add data (input), validate the data (show that it validates), process the data, and produce a report.  The student must show that the objectives outlined in the proposal have been achieved.  

When doing the presentation, you will also give a stapled, printout of your project document, Chapters 1 to7, plus the References chapter and Appendices.  The panel will go through the document, and make corrections, after which you will be told when to submit the printed and bound 2 copies.

You cannot present your system if your proposal (Ch 1 - 3) and chapters 4 and 5 have not been seen and approved by your supervisor.  Even if you do present, it will be difficult to achieve a passmark without the proposal(Ch1-3), system analysis(Ch 4) and design(Ch 5).

