 CHAPTER FIVE: SYSTEM DESIGN 
 5.1 Intr oduction 
 This chapter details the technical design of Study Cue, transforming the requirements into a 
 functional architecture. It covers the system architecture, process modeling, database design, and 
 user interface layouts. 
 5.2 Ar chitectur e of the Pr oposed System 
 Study Cue follows a modern  Full-Stack Decoupled Ar chitectur e  ,  splitting concerns between a 
 reactive frontend and a logic-heavy backend. 
 Figur e 5.1: Pr oposed System Ar chitectur e Diagram showing the decoupled full-stack 
 infrastructur e and integration with AI APIs. 
 The system components are as follows: 
 ●  Frontend (Next.js 14):  A responsive web application  using React Server Components 
 for performance and Shadcn UI for a premium aesthetic. 
 ●  Backend (Node.js/Expr ess):  A RESTful API that orchestrates  logic between the 
 database and external AI services. 
 ●  Database (MongoDB):  A NoSQL database for flexible  storage of study plans, chat 
 histories, and notes. 
 34 

 ●  AI Services: 
 ●  Groq:  LLM inference (Llama-3) for text generation  and reasoning. 
 ●  HuggingFace:  Sentence embeddings for PDF search. 
 ●  Tavily:  Academic-focused web search. 
 5.3 System Pr ocess Modeling 
 The following sequence diagrams illustrate the core workflows of the Study Cue platform, 
 specifically the AI-driven study planning and the Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) 
 process for documents curation and analysis. 
 5.3.1 User Registration and Authentication Pr ocess 
 The authentication system leverages NextAuth.js to provide secure access via OAuth (Google) 
 and Credentials-based protocols, ensuring user data privacy and session persistence. 
 Figur e 5.2: Sequence Diagram illustrating the secur e user r egistration and authentication flow . 
 35 

 5.3.2 Study Plan Generation Pr ocess 
 Figur e 5.3: Sequence Diagram illustrating the AI-driven study plan generation workflow . 
 36 

 5.3.3 PDF Chat (RAG) Pr ocess 
 Figur e 5.4: Sequence Diagram illustrating the Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) pr ocess 
 for interactive PDF chat. 
 5.3.4 Resour ce Sear ch and Curation Pr ocess 
 Study Cue automates the discovery of academic materials by integrating real-time web search 
 with AI summarization. 
 37 

 Figur e 5.5: Sequence Diagram illustrating the automated r esour ce discovery and curation 
 workflow . 
 5.3.5 Notes Cr eation and Management Pr ocess 
 The platform allows users to capture insights from AI chats or manual study sessions into a 
 centralized "Neural Library" where the user can edit or modify the notes. 
 38 

 Figur e 5.6: Sequence Diagram illustrating the note cr eation, ar chival, and r etrieval pr ocess. 
 5.3.6 Community Q&A Flow 
 The Community Q&A module allows authenticated students to publish questions and resource 
 folders to a shared academic feed. 
 Process: 
 1.  An authenticated student submits a question (title, body , tags) via the Community page. 
 2.  The Next.js frontend sends a POST request to the Express backend 
 (  /api/community/questions  ). 
 3.  The backend validates the payload, attaches the author's ID and name from the JWT 
 session, and saves a new  CommunityQuestion  document  to MongoDB. 
 4.  The question is immediately visible in the community feed, sorted by recency or upvote 
 count. 
 39 

 5.  Other students can post replies (threaded, with optional  replyT o  nesting) or upvote the 
 question. 
 6.  The platform optionally generates an AI reply via the Groq API to provide an immediate 
 starting answer . 
 7.  Admin users can soft-delete or review reported posts via the Admin Panel. 
 5.4 Database Design 
 The database uses MongoDB collections to handle relational and semi-structured data. 
 5.4.1 Data Dictionary (Cor e Collections) 
 Collection:  Users 
 Field  Data T ype  Constraint  Description 
 _id  ObjectId  Primary Key  Unique user identifier 
 name  String  Required  Full name of the user 
 email  String  Required, 
 Unique  Login identifier 
 password  String  Required  Hashed credentials 
 subjects  Array  Optional  List of academic interests 
 savedPlans  Array  Embedded  List of generated study plans 
 savedResour 
 ces  Array  Embedded  Curated materials saved by user 
 stats  ObjectId  Foreign Key  Reference to StudyStats 
 Collection:  StudyPlans 
 Field  Data T ype  Constraint  Description 
 _id  ObjectId  Primary Key  Unique plan identifier 
 40 
 Field  Data T ype  Constraint  Description 
 userId  ObjectId  Foreign Key  Owner of the plan 
 overview  Object  Required  Subject, duration, and exam date 
 weeklyPlans  Array  Required  Temporal schedule with tasks 
 isActive  Boolean  Default: T rue  Current monitoring status 
 progress  Number  0-100  Completion percentage 
 lastUpdated  Date  Default: Now  Last activity timestamp 
 Collection:  Notes 
 Field  Data T ype  Constraint  Description 
 _id  ObjectId  Primary Key  Unique note identifier 
 userId  ObjectId  Foreign Key  Author of the note 
 title  String  Required  Display title 
 content  Array  Blocks  JSON-based block structure 
 path  String  Default: '/'  Hierarchy placement 
 isArchived  Boolean  Default: False  For soft deletion 
 Collection:  StudyStats 
 Field  Data T ype  Constraint  Description 
 _id  ObjectId  Primary Key  Unique stats identifier 
 userId  ObjectId  Foreign Key  User performance link 
 totalHours  Number  Accumulated  Total time in Focus mode 
 41 
 Field  Data T ype  Constraint  Description 
 currentStrea 
 k  Number  Daily  Consecutive study days 
 dailySession 
 s  Map  Complex  Log of Pomodoro completions 
 Collection:  PdfDocuments 
 Field  Data T ype  Constraint  Description 
 _id  ObjectId  Primary Key  Unique document identifier 
 userId  ObjectId  Foreign Key  Owner of the document 
 title  String  Required  Filename for display 
 chunks  Array  Required  Text segments for RAG context 
 embeddings  Array  Required  Vector data for semantic search 
 chatHistory  Array  Optional  List of previous Q&A pairs 
 Collection:  CuratedResour ces 
 Field  Data T ype  Constraint  Description 
 _id  ObjectId  Primary Key  Unique resource set identifier 
 userId  String  Required  User who requested search 
 topic  String  Required  The search keyword/topic 
 resources  Array  Required  URLs, types, and AI summaries 
 lastUpdated  Date  Default: Now  Freshness timestamp 
 42 
 Collection:  CommunityQuestions 
 Field  Data T ype  Constraint  Description 
 _id  ObjectId  Primary Key  Unique question identifier 
 title  String  Required  Short display title of the question 
 body  String  Required  Full question content (supports 
 Markdown) 
 authorId  String  Required  ID of the posting user 
 authorName  String  Required  Display name of the author 
 tags  Array  Optional  Topic tags (e.g., "study-tip", "physics") 
 upvotes  Number  Default: 0  Net upvote count 
 upvotedBy  Array  Optional  IDs of users who upvoted 
 replies  Array  Embedded  Threaded replies from peers or AI 
 isDeleted  Boolean  Default: False  Soft delete flag for admin moderation 
 isReported  Boolean  Default: False  Flagged for admin review 
 createdAt  Date  Default: Now  Submission timestamp 
 Collection:  CommunityResour ces 
 Field  Data T ype  Constraint  Description 
 _id  ObjectId  Primary Key  Unique resource folder identifier 
 authorId  String  Required  ID of the publishing user 
 43 
 Field  Data T ype  Constraint  Description 
 authorName  String  Required  Display name of the publisher 
 topic  String  Required  Folder title / subject area 
 description  String  Optional  Brief folder summary 
 resourceT ype  String  Enum:  Structural type for nesting 
 parentId  String  Optional  Parent folder ID for subfolder nesting 
 tags  Array  Optional  Descriptive tags 
 resources  Array  Required  List of curated links with title, URL, type, 
 description 
 upvotes  Number  Default: 0  Community upvote count 
 saves  Number  Default: 0  Number of times cloned to personal libraries 
 savedBy  Array  Optional  IDs of users who saved this folder 
 isDeleted  Boolean  Default: False  Soft delete for moderation 
 createdAt  Date  Default: Now  Publication timestamp 
 Collection:  FocusSessions 
 Field  Data T ype  Constraint  Description 
 _id  ObjectId  Primary Key  Unique session identifier 
 userId  String  Required  ID of the student running the session 
 userName  String  Required  Display name of the student 
 44 
 Field  Data T ype  Constraint  Description 
 subject  String  Default:  Subject being studied in this session 
 durationMinutes  Number  Required  Intended Pomodoro duration (e.g., 25 
 mins) 
 startT ime  Date  Default: Now  Session start timestamp 
 completedMinutes  Number  Default: 0  Actual minutes of focused study completed 
 status  String  Active/Completed/ 
 Abandoned  Current state of the session 
 5.5 User Interface (UI) Design 
 The UI is designed to be "Calm and Focused," leveraging a glassmorphic aesthetic to minimize 
 cognitive load while maintaining a premium, high-tech feel. All interfaces prioritize dark modes 
 with vibrant accents to guide user attention. 
 5.5.1 Dashboard Interface 
 The central hub for student activity , the Dashboard integrates temporal tracking with real-time, 
 focus session and progress monitoring. 
 45 
 Figur e 5.8: The Study Cue Dashboar d providing a summary of active courses, pr ogress tracking 
 via the "Neural Roadmap" chart, and an integrated Pomodor o timer for focused study sessions. 
 5.5.2 Study Library (Resour ces and PDF Management) 
 The Study Library is the or ganizational hub where users manage folders, projects, and 
 AI-curated resource collections. It supports PDF uploads (linked to the PDF W orkshop for 
 AI-powered chat), manual resource management, community publishing, and serves as the 
 shared folder structure used by Study Plans and the Research Hub. 
 46 

 Figur e 5.9: The PDF W orkshop featuring a grid design for r esour ce management and 
 AI-assisted analysis. The interface includes an AI Study Assistant with the ability to ar chive 
 insights dir ectly to notes. 
 5.5.3 Resear ch Hub (Resour ce Library) 
 The Research Hub lets users save resources by URL (with auto-extracted metadata) or enter a 
 topic to AI-curate a collection of free learning resources using web search and LLM-based 
 selection. 
 47 

 Figur e 5.10: The Resour ce Library pr esenting a curated masonry grid of materials enhanced 
 with AI-generated "Insights" for rapid r elevance evaluation. 
 5.5.4 Study Plan 
 The Study Plan page or ganizes AI-generated tasks into a weekly/daily structure aligned to the 
 exam date, with progress tracking and automatic surfacing of today's tasks. 
 48 

 Figur e 5.11: The Study Plan interface pr oviding a timeline of study milestones, daily focus tasks, 
 and step pr ogress tracking. 
 5.5.5 Study Notes Library 
 The Neural Library serves as the long-term knowledge repository for captured insights. 
 49 

 Figur e 5.12: The Study Notes Library interface featuring car d-based notes management with 
 hierar chical folder structur es and semantic tagging. 
 5.5.6 PDF W orkshop 
 The PDF W orkshop provides a split-pane workspace where users view uploaded PDFs alongside 
 an AI chat assistant. It uses a RAG pipeline (local embeddings + vector similarity search + Groq 
 LLM) to answer questions grounded in the document's content, with source page citations and 
 the ability to save insights to notes. 
 50 

 Figur e 5.13: The PDF W orkshop pr oviding a split-pane workspace wher e users view uploaded 
 PDFs alongside an AI chat assistant. 
 5.5.7 Community Q&A Interface 
 The Community module provides a dual-tab interface for peer knowledge sharing: 
 51 

 Figur e 5.14: The Study Cue Community Hub  interface featuring car d-based r esour ces engine 
 with hierar chical folder structur es and semantic tagging. 
 Tab 1 — Q&A Feed:  Scrollable question cards showing  avatar , title, tags, upvote/reply counts. 
 Clicking expands the full thread with an inline reply composer and "Generate AI Answer" 
 button. Filterable by tag or sortable by newest/most upvoted. 
 Tab 2 — Community Resour ces:  Card-grid of shared resource  folders showing topic, author , 
 tags, upvote, and save counts. Students can clone folders into their Library via "Save to Library ." 
 Folders support nested subfolders. 
 Admin V iew:  Reported content surfaces in the Admin  Panel for review . Admins can soft-delete 
 posts, removing them from the public feed without permanent deletion. 
 52 

 CHAPTER 6: SYSTEM IMPLEMENT ATION 
 6.1 Intr oduction 
 This chapter describes the implementation of the Study Cue platform, covering the tools used for 
 coding and testing, the testing approach, and the proposed change-over techniques. Development 
 followed an Agile methodology with iterative sprints covering the Study Planner , Focus T imer, 
 Research Hub, PDF W orkshop, Notes Management, and Community Q&A module. 
 6.2 T ools Used for Coding and T esting 
 The platform was implemented using a modern JavaScript/T ypeScript stack, as summarized in 
 the table below: 
 Category  Tool  Purpose 
 IDE  Visual Studio Code / 
 Cursor  Frontend and backend development 
 Version Control  Git and GitHub  Source code management and 
 versioning 
 Frontend 
 Framework  Next.js 14 & React 18  Server -side rendered, responsive UI 
 Styling & UI  Tailwind CSS, Radix UI, 
 Framer Motion  Styling, accessible components, 
 animations 
 Backend 
 Framework  Node.js with Express.js  RESTful API endpoints 
 ORM  Mongoose  Object Data Modeling for MongoDB 
 Database  MongoDB  NoSQL persistent data storage 
 53 
 Authentication  NextAuth.js & JWT  User sessions, Google OAuth, 
 credential logins 
 AI — LLM 
 Inference  Groq API (Llama-3)  Natural language generation for Study 
 Plan and Research Hub 
 AI — Embeddings  HuggingFace Inference 
 API  Sentence embeddings for PDF 
 semantic search (RAG) 
 AI — Resource 
 Discovery  Tavily API  Academic-focused web search and 
 resource curation 
 API T esting  Swagger & Postman  Endpoint documentation and testing 
 Analytics  PostHog  User behaviour tracking and funnel 
 analysis 
 UI Testing  Chrome, Edge, Firefox  Cross-browser compatibility 
 verification 
 All tools were used under open-source, free-tier , or student licenses, minimizing development 
 costs while maintaining enterprise-grade architecture. 
 6.3 T esting Appr oach and Data Used 
 Testing was conducted continuously throughout the Agile development lifecycle using the 
 following strategies: 
 6.3.1 Unit T esting 
 Backend utility functions and Mongoose model validations were tested, including user schema 
 requirements, bcrypt password hashing, and study plan data structures. Frontend component 
 logic was verified manually , focusing on the Focus T imer state management and Study Plan form 
 validations. 
 6.3.2 Integration T esting 
 54 
 API endpoints were tested via Swagger and Postman to validate the full request/response 
 lifecycle, covering user registration, study plan generation, PDF uploads, and Community Q&A 
 posting. Mongoose queries were verified for correct relationship mapping between Users, Study 
 Plans, and Community Resources. External integrations with Groq and T avily APIs were tested 
 for proper context generation and error fallback handling. 
 6.3.3 Functional T esting 
 Core user workflows were tested using synthetic data: 
 ●  Study Planning Flow:  A student registered, entered  a subject and exam date, and the 
 system computed available study days, scanned existing Library content for context, and 
 passed the assembled context to Groq (Llama-3), which generated a structured weekly 
 JSON plan. The student then reviewed and completed daily tasks on the dashboard. 
 ●  PDF RAG Flow:  A PDF textbook was uploaded, chunked,  and embedded via 
 HuggingFace. Queries returned Groq-powered contextual answers with source 
 attribution, which were archived to the Notes module. 
 ●  Resour ce Discovery Flow:  A topic query triggered the  Tavily API to retrieve and 
 AI-summarize curated academic resources, which were saved to the personal Library . 
 ●  Admin Flow:  An admin logged in, reviewed and moderated  Community Q&A posts, and 
 monitored platform analytics via the PostHog dashboard. 
 Sample test data included synthetic student accounts, AI-generated study plans with modular 
 tasks (e.g., "Calculus 101" covering Derivatives, Integrals, and Limits), academic PDFs chunked 
 into 500-token segments, and seeded Community Q&A interactions. 
 6.3.4 User Acceptance T esting (UA T) 
 Volunteer university students participated in guided walkthroughs of the local deployment, 
 evaluating ease of study plan creation, AI research clarity , and Focus T imer usability . Feedback 
 on navigation transitions and dark mode contrast was iteratively incorporated into the final 
 prototype. 
 6.3.5 Security T esting 
 55 
 Unauthenticated requests to protected API routes were verified to return HTTP 401/403 errors. 
 Passwords were confirmed to be hashed using bcryptjs prior to database insertion. Server actions 
 and Express routes were tested with malformed inputs to ensure proper error handling without 
 exposing stack traces. 
 6.4 Pr oposed Change-over T echniques 
 6.4.1 Pilot Change-over (Recommended) 
 Study Cue was introduced to a controlled cohort of approximately 30 students for one academic 
 semester . Students were onboarded via an interactive platform tour , used the system for a 
 specific subject, and provided feedback monitored through engagement metrics. This low-risk 
 approach allowed identification of performance bottlenecks and UX friction points before a 
 wider rollout. 
 6.4.2 Parallel Change-over (Alternative) 
 Students used Study Cue alongside existing tools such as Notion or physical notebooks during a 
 transitional period, gradually migrating their full workflow . While this minimized disruption to 
 study routines, it risked duplicated ef fort and slower early adoption. 
 6.4.3 T raining and Documentation 
 To support smooth onboarding, a "Getting Started" guide was pinned in the Community Q&A 
 feed, contextual tooltips and an interactive onboarding sequence were implemented for first-time 
 users, and "How-to" sections were documented on the platform's marketing pages. 
 56 
 CHAPTER 7: LIMIT ATIONS, CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDA TIONS 
 7.1 Limitations 
 The following limitations were identified during the development and initial testing phases of 
 Study Cue: 
 1.  AI Dependency and Rate Limits:  The Research Hub and  Study Plan generator rely 
 heavily on third-party APIs (Google Gemini/Groq). Free-tier API rate limits could restrict 
 simultaneous usage during high-traf fic periods (e.g., finals week). 
 2.  File Storage Constraints:  The personal Library currently  handles PDF uploads. 
 Managing storage costs for lar ge-scale document hosting across a massive user base was 
 beyond the scope of this initial local prototype. 
 3.  Internet Dependency:  As a web-based platform with  real-time AI and database queries, 
 Study Cue requires a stable internet connection, limiting its utility for of fline study 
 sessions or in areas with poor connectivity . 
 4.  Time Constraints:  The project was developed within  a strict timeframe, limiting the 
 breadth of longitudinal UA T to measure actual GP A/academic performance 
 improvements resulting from platform usage. 
 5.  Lack of Native Mobile App:  While the web interface  is fully responsive, the lack of a 
 native mobile application (iOS/Android) limits features like push notifications for study 
 reminders and of fline access. 
 7.2 Conclusions 
 The Study Cue project successfully engineered an all-in-one digital study companion. The 
 system addressed key objectives identified during initial requirements gathering: 
 ●  Consolidated fragmented study tools into a single, cohesive dashboard featuring a custom 
 Focus T imer, Study Planner , and document Library . 
 ●  Leveraged AI to reduce the cognitive load of or ganizing study materials, successfully 
 generating structured, actionable study plans and providing instant, contextual academic 
 research. 
 ●  Fostered collaborative learning through a Community Q&A and resource-sharing feed, 
 promoting peer -to-peer academic support. 
 57 
 ●  Delivered a premium, highly responsive user interface prioritizing dark-mode aesthetics 
 and distraction-free learning environments. 
 7.3 Recommendations 
 Based on project findings, the following recommendations are proposed for future iterations of 
 Study Cue: 
 7.3.1 T echnical Recommendations 
 1.  Implement Cloud Object Storage:  Integrate Amazon S3  or Cloudinary to sustainably 
 handle student PDF and document uploads in the Library module. 
 2.  Develop a Native Mobile Application:  Utilize React  Native or Flutter to build a 
 companion app, enabling of fline study tracking, persistent timer notifications, and 
 on-the-go flashcard review . 
 3.  Advanced AI Featur es:  Implement Retrieval-Augmented  Generation (RAG) so the AI 
 can chat directly with a student's uploaded PDFs within their personal Library , providing 
 highly personalized tutoring. 
 7.3.2 Educational and Content Recommendations 
 1.  Institutional Partnerships:  Collaborate with universities  to integrate Study Cue with 
 learning management systems (like Canvas or Moodle), allowing automatic import of 
 syllabi into the Study Planner . 
 2.  Gamification:  Expand the dashboard progress rings  into a comprehensive gamification 
 system (e.g., academic streaks, badges, leaderboards) to incentivize consistent study 
 habits. 
 7.3.3 Deployment Recommendations 
 1.  Public Cloud Deployment:  Transition from local development/Docker  to a highly 
 available public cloud infrastructure (e.g., V ercel for frontend, Render/A WS for backend) 
 to support a public beta launch. 
 2.  Analytics Integration:  Fully implement PostHog or  similar analytics to track user 
 drop-of f points within the study flow , allowing for data-driven UI improvements. 
 58 
 APPENDICES 
 APPENDIX A 
 QUESTIONNAIRE QUESTIONS FOR STUDENTS (USERS) 
 1.  On a scale of 1–5, how overwhelmed do you feel when or ganizing your study schedule 
 for a new semester? 
 2.  Which tools do you currently use to manage your studying? (Select all that apply: 
 Physical planner , Google Calendar , Notion, generic timers, none, other). 
 3.  How often do you experience "study block" or struggle to break down a lar ge topic into 
 manageable learning steps? 
 4.  How comfortable are you with using Artificial Intelligence (like ChatGPT) to assist in 
 your academic research and planning? 
 5.  Which features would you find most useful in an all-in-one study platform?  (Options: 
 AI-generated study plans, built-in Pomodor o timer , peer -to-peer community Q&A, 
 PDF/document storage, AI document summarization, pr ogress tracking rings). 
 6.  Have you used any digital study platforms before? If yes, what did you like or dislike 
 about them? 
 7.  How likely are you to use a platform that integrates your study timer , notes, and research 
 into one dashboard rather than switching between tabs? 
 8.  What are your primary distractions when trying to study online? 
 9.  In your own words, describe the biggest challenge you face when preparing for major 
 exams. 
 59 
 APPENDIX B 
 QUESTIONNAIRE QUESTIONS FOR EDUCA TORS / PEER TUT ORS 
 1.  What are the most common or ganizational struggles you observe in your students? 
 2.  How frequently do students express dif ficulty in knowing  how  to study rather than  what 
 to study? 
 3.  What barriers do students face when transitioning from attending lectures to independent 
 study? 
 4.  How ef fective do you think digital platforms are in improving student retention and 
 consistency? 
 5.  How concerned are you about the ethical use of AI by students in their academic 
 workflow? 
 6.  If an AI platform helped students break down your syllabus into daily study tasks, how 
 do you think it would impact their performance? 
 7.  What challenges do you face when trying to share supplemental study materials with 
 your class? 
 8.  How should a digital platform balance providing AI assistance with encouraging 
 independent critical thinking?  (Options: Limiting  direct answers, for cing active r ecall, 
 focusing on planning rather than writing, pr omoting peer discussion). 
 60 
 APPENDIX C 
 INTERESTING CODE SNIPPETS 
 1. Study Plan Generation — Hybrid Algorithm + AI Pipeline (Node.js/Gr oq) 
 // Step 1 — ALGORITHM: Calculate available study days 
 const daysUntilExam = Math.ceil( 
 (new Date(examDate) - new Date()) / (1000 * 60 * 60 * 24) 
 ); 
 // Step 2 — ALGORITHM: Build context from student's existing data 
 // Scans Library folders, Research Hub items, and uploaded PDFs 
 // Uses keyword regex to detect syllabi / course outlines 
 const folderContext = await buildFolderContext(userId, subject); 
 // e.g. returns: "SUBJECT OUTLINE: Week 1 - Kinematics, Week 2 - Dynamics... 
 //                Library resources: - Lecture Notes (PDF)..." 
 // Step 3 — ALGORITHM: Merge user-provided context with auto-gathered context 
 const combinedContext = [folderContext, userContext].filter(Boolean).join('\n\n'); 
 // Step 4 — AI (Groq Llama-3): Generate personalised plan using pre-built context 
 const groq = new Groq({ apiKey: process.env.GROQ_API_KEY }); 
 const completion = await groq.chat.completions.create({ 
 model: 'llama-3.3-70b-versatile', 
 messages: [ 
 { role: 'system', content: 'You are an expert study planner. Respond in JSON.' }, 
 { role: 'user',   content: `Create a ${daysUntilExam}-day plan for ${subject}.\n${combinedContext}` } 
 ], 
 response_format: { type: 'json_object' }, 
 temperature: 0.7, 
 61 
 }); 
 // Step 5 — ALGORITHM: Validate AI output structure before persisting 
 const parsedPlan = JSON.parse(completion.choices[0].message.content); 
 if (!parsedPlan.overview || !parsedPlan.weeklyPlans) { 
 throw new Error('Invalid plan structure returned by AI'); 
 } 
 // Step 6 — ALGORITHM: Auto-link a Library folder to the new study plan 
 const plan = new StudyPlan({ userId, ...parsedPlan, isActive: true, progress: 0 }); 
 await plan.save(); 
 2. PDF RAG — Document Embedding & Semantic Sear ch (HuggingFace) 
 import { HfInference } from '@huggingface/inference'; 
 const hf = new HfInference(process.env.HUGGINGFACE_API_KEY); 
 // Generate embedding vector for a text chunk 
 export async function embedText(text) { 
 const result = await hf.featureExtraction({ 
 model: 'sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2', 
 inputs: text, 
 }); 
 return result; // returns a float[] embedding vector 
 } 
 // Cosine similarity to find the most relevant chunks for a user query 
 export function cosineSimilarity(vecA, vecB) { 
 const dot = vecA.reduce((sum, a, i) => sum + a * vecB[i], 0); 
 const magA = Math.sqrt(vecA.reduce((sum, a) => sum + a * a, 0)); 
 62 
 const magB = Math.sqrt(vecB.reduce((sum, b) => sum + b * b, 0)); 
 return dot / (magA * magB); 
 } 
 3. Focus T imer State Management (React/Zustand) 
 import { create } from 'zustand'; 
 interface TimerState { 
 timeLeft: number; 
 isRunning: boolean; 
 startTimer: () => void; 
 pauseTimer: () => void; 
 tick: () => void; 
 } 
 export const useTimerStore = create<TimerState>((set) => ({ 
 timeLeft: 25 * 60, // 25 minutes default (Pomodoro) 
 isRunning: false, 
 startTimer: () => set({ isRunning: true }), 
 pauseTimer: () => set({ isRunning: false }), 
 tick: () => set((state) => ({ 
 timeLeft: state.timeLeft > 0 ? state.timeLeft - 1 : 0 
 })), 
 })); 
 63 
 APPENDIX D 
 TECHNICAL GUIDE AND USER MANUAL 
 1. System Requir ements 
 ●  Operating System:  Windows 10+, macOS 1 1+, or modern  Linux distributions. 
 ●  Browser:  Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Microsoft  Edge (latest versions 
 recommended). 
 ●  Network:  Stable broadband internet connection required  for AI querying and database 
 sync. 
 2. User Registration and Login 
 ●  Navigate to  www .studycue.me  (or  localhost:3000  for  local deployment). 
 ●  Click  "Sign Up"  to create a new account using an email  and password, or click 
 "Continue with Google"  for Single Sign-On (SSO). 
 ●  Upon successful login, you will be redirected to the main Dashboard. 
 3. Generating a Study Plan 
 ●  On the Dashboard, click  "New Plan"  . 
 ●  Enter the Subject name (e.g., "Or ganic Chemistry") and select your tar get Exam Date. 
 ●  Click  "Generate"  . The AI will process the request  and populate your dashboard with a 
 structured timeline of study tasks. 
 ●  Click the checkbox next to a task to mark it as completed and update your progress ring. 
 4. Using the Focus T imer 
 ●  Navigate to the  Timer  page via the left sidebar . 
 ●  Select your preferred mode (e.g., Pomodoro 25/5). 
 ●  Click  "Start"  to begin the countdown. Y ou can pause  the timer at any point. 
 5. Accessing the Resear ch Hub 
 ●  Navigate to the  Resear ch Hub  . 
 ●  Type your academic query into the search bar . 
 64 
 ●  The AI will generate a comprehensive summary and provide relevant academic context. 
 You can click "Save" to add this research to your personal Library . 
 65 
 REFERENCES 
 1.  Beck, K., Beedle, M., van Bennekum, A., Cockburn, A., Cunningham, W ., Fowler , M., 
 Grenning, J., Highsmith, J., Hunt, A., Jef fries, R., Kern, J., Marick, B., Martin, R. C., 
 Mellor , S., Schwaber , K., Sutherland, J., & Thomas, D. (2001).  Manifesto for Agile 
 Softwar e Development.  https://agilemanifesto.or g/ 
 2.  Bozkurt, A., & Sharma, R. C. (2020). Emer gency remote teaching in a time of global 
 crisis due to CoronaV irus pandemic.  Asian Journal  of Distance Education, 15  (1), i–vi. 
 https://www .asianjde.or g/ojs/index.php/AsianJDE/article/view/447 
 3.  Braun, V ., & Clarke, V . (2013).  Successful Qualitative  Resear ch: A Practical Guide for 
 Beginners.  SAGE Publications. 
 4.  Chen, Y ., & Lin, H. (2023). Integrating lar ge language models into self-regulated learning 
 platforms.  International Journal of Artificial Intelligence  in Education, 12  (1), 45–67. 
 5.  Creswell, J. W ., & Creswell, J. D. (2018).  Resear ch  Design: Qualitative, Quantitative, 
 and Mixed Methods Appr oaches  (5th ed.). SAGE Publications. 
 6.  Crockford, D. (2008).  JavaScript: The Good Parts.  O'Reilly Media. 
 7.  Floridi, L., & Cowls, J. (2019). A unified framework of five principles for AI ethics. 
 Harvar d Data Science Review , 1  (1).  https://doi.or g/10.1 162/99608f92.8cd5501d 
 8.  Google for Developers. (2024).  Gemini API documentation.  Retrieved May 18, 2026, 
 from  https://ai.google.dev/docs 
 9.  Groq. (2024).  Groq LPU infer ence engine: Fast AI infer ence. 
 10.  Kariuki, M., & W anjiru, E. (2022). Barriers to digital tool adoption among university 
 students in Kenya.  African Journal of Information  Systems, 14  (2), 89–104. 
 11.  Kasneci, E., Seßler , K., Küchemann, S., & Kasneci, G. (2023). ChatGPT for good? On 
 opportunities and challenges of lar ge language models for education.  Learning and 
 Individual Differ ences, 103,  102274.  https://doi.or g/10.1016/j.lindif.2023.102274 
 12.  Lucide. (2024).  Beautiful & consistent icons.  Retrieved  May 18, 2026, from 
 https://lucide.dev/ 
 13.  Luckin, R., Holmes, W ., Grif fiths, M., & Forcier , L. B. (2016).  Intelligence unleashed: 
 An ar gument for AI in education.  Pearson.  https://discovery .ucl.ac.uk/id/eprint/14751 16/ 
 14.  MongoDB. (2024).  MongoDB: The most popular database  for modern apps.  Retrieved 
 May 18, 2026, from  https://mongoosejs.com/ 
 66 
